Hi and welcome back.
So let's take a look at some code for packages.
There's actually going to be very little code in this section.
We're really just going to create directories and files and just type a line of code here and there.
So let's go ahead and create a module for us.
So I'm going to call this module one and module one has been created under our package's application.
So the application names packages and in here I'm just going to create a.
Well I'm going to print.
I'm going to say print.
Executing module one.
OK.
And then I'm going to have a are an attribute let's call it value and let's just say that this is Madill
one value.
OK.
So now let me go ahead and run Python.
And let's go ahead an import module one case or as you can see we see executing Module 1 because it
loaded it.
It's now in the cist modules cache.
It's also in our path right in our in our Global's I should say.
So now we can say the module one dot value for example and it returns Module 1 bad.
OK.
So I imported this name over here.
And I had to access it by saying module one that name that symbol that was put into my global namespace
called Module 1.
And then I could access the value inside of Module 1 that way using a dot notation.
So I've seen all this before.
Let's go ahead and create a package to create a package.
All I need to do is to create a directory by John has a way to create a pie package automatically for
us but it really just does two things which is create the directory first.
Let's call it Pack 1.
And then inside that directory We are going to create a file with a special name of donder init and
that's it.
Pack one is now a package.
So let's go ahead and import that one.
And let's look at some of the properties of Module 1 or Module 1 is a module.
It has a file property.
It tells us where it's located.
It's located here.
Module one also has a package property that tells us which package it's in.
Well in this case it's not in any package.
It's in the root of our application.
Sometimes you may think of your application as a package but it's not the application is just the application.
The packagers need that done in it.
So this module one is not in any package.
It's directly basically in the root of our application.
What about the app path property of Module 1.
Remember what we said about path a path is only for packages.
Module one is not a package.
It doesn't have a path attribute.
What about package 1.
Let's take a look at the package one file.
Well let's look at the package first.
OK.
Which packages package one in in itself.
So the path to package one the package path to package one is just pack one is it it is it's self.
OK.
And it's not contained in anything else.
What about the file.
Well what about the path to path for us.
Will the file to last.
What's the path.
Well this is a package now.
Right.
So the package has a path the path is the directory and you can see that this is indeed the fully qualified
path to pack 1 to this directory on the file system.
What about the code modules have code in them.
Right.
What is the code file for package one.
It's the Dondre init file.
So let's go ahead and C-PAC one on the file.
And as you can see it basically grabs the Dundreary in it.
So the donder in it is what defines that the containing directory is a package so in the Dundrum for
Pac 1 it's just like a code module.
It's just like writing you know code for module 1 in the module one file to write code in package one.
We can write it in the directory directly we have to write it in this file instead.
And then Python will stitch those two things essentially together the package name will be the module
name will be pack 1 and the module code will be what it was in here.
So let's go ahead and say print executing pack 1
and then in here we're going to say value equals pack 1 van came just like we did with Module 1 right.
We just did it this way so I'm going to follow the same path.
OK.
Now that we have that let's save this and let's exit out of Python so I can reload things.
So now let's go ahead and import pack one and look at what happens.
It printed executing Pack 1.
Right.
It executed it just like it executes a regular module's code file.
So the same thing happened and now I have of course access to value right.
Value is in the namespace of that package that module Pack 1 and the type of pack one is a module and
the type of well within load module one its import module one.
And if I look at the type of module one it's also a module that both modules.
The only difference is that pack 1 being a package type of module can now contain other modules which
could be packages since packages are modules.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's create a new package in here.
I'm going to use this shortcut.
I'm going to call this back one underscore one.
OK.
So you notice all it did it created the directory and the Dunder init file.
So let's go ahead and let me just copy this code and we'll paste it right into the dunderheaded of package
1 1.
Except here.
I'll fix this up.
We're executing package 1 1 and this is the package 1 1 value.
OK.
So let's try this again.
Let's exit and let's rerun Python.
Now let's go ahead and import pack one underscore one.
OK we want to import this package one underscore one.
There's a problem with that.
Try this.
It's going to tell us no we couldn't find the you know the find that the find is in Python.
Could not find this module.
It knows where to start looking for modules.
Right.
Remember that's important since we can look at says that path it has all these different paths including
the route of our application.
OK.
But it doesn't know anything further than that it doesn't keep digging automatically.
So the problem is that it doesn't know anything about package one underscore one it knows package one
because package one is sitting in the root of the application.
But package one one is not correct.
So instead we have to do import pack one duffed fact one underscore one.
So what's going to happen.
Well Packards one one is under package one in order to reach package one one.
Python is going to have to load the package one first.
So let's see what happens.
And you can see we get executing package 1 followed by executing Packards 1 1.
So when we loaded package 1 1 when we imported that it actually had to import package one also.
Now what about accessing the value inside package one 1 we just import a package one 1 right.
So let's just say package 1 underscore one dark value.
Well it's telling us No I don't know what package 1 1 is it's not defined what it means not defined
isn't package 1 1.
The inaugural ogles with just imported it right.
And it's not.
OK how about cist modules module's is our package one underscore one insists dobbed modules.
It's not either.
What's going on.
Well the package isn't package one underscore one.
It is what it is.
Package one dot package one underscore one.
So if we look at the fact one of fact one underscore one is that consist of modules.
And the answer is yes.
How valeting Global's is it in Global's.
And the answer is false.
OK what's going on.
All right let's take a look at Module 1.
When I say import module 1 I then have to reference Module 1 whatever this import was Dot and then something
that's inside the module one.
So like a for example.
All right old value in our case.
Now when I imported pack one pack one underscore one.
When I do this
then when I do this how in my going to refer to the value inside package one underscore one.
Well I need to refer to it as this.
Right.
This is how I would refer to it.
This is what I imported.
This is the symbol.
Basically you can think of that I would use to get at the value.
So what Python does instead of giving me the pack one dot pack one one symbol.
It just gives me the symbol for package 1 for that top level thing and package 1 one however is accessible
inside package 1 because we imported it we imported package one one that was inside package one.
So that's a little bit confusing at first but this will work just fine because that one is in our Global's
right but packed one d'arte fact one underscore one is not in our globose because we're always going
to refer to it as fact Wandell fact one underscore one Anyway's what we could have done if you really
wanted to you could say from package one impulse pack one underscore one.
Now we're going to see that back one underscore one is in Global's.
OK.
But that's just a symbol.
If we look at the ID of pack 1 underscore 1 and we want to check if that's equal to the ID of says that
modules of fact one dot back one underscore one K which we saw was registered in so small gules k.
That's not what I was expecting.
What's the ID all fact one underscore wants that.
And what is the idea of this thought modules back one back one underscore one.
It's the same values so what did I do wrong.
Or as I said it's equal equal to that.
All right.
I was I thought I was losing my mind here.
They will need to check of the ids of the same.
They are indeed the same.
OK.
So that's how you would actually put the symbol for package one directly into a global namespace you
would actually have to say from package one import package one one so of course we can go take this
one step forward.
Let's go ahead and create a module in here called module one underscore one a k an inside package one.
I'm going to put also a module called module 1 a K so inside package one.
Now what do we have.
We have a package a sub package and we have a module called module one a in the sub package.
We have a module called module one underscore one a k.
So let's go ahead and put some code in everything here.
So let me just copy this.
And let's go that one has the code that one doesn't have the code.
So we say here executing module 1 underscore one a.
And then for the value we'll say this is module one underscore one a valid K and then in module one
a over his will just say module one a and module one a.
OK.
All right.
So everything's kind of filled out.
Now let's go ahead and exits and let's rerun Python OK.
Now let's go ahead and let's say that we want to import module one under school 1 8 so this we know
now is not going to work.
Python is not going to be able to locate and find the module one underscore one way.
Instead we have to say import fact one dot fact one underscore one dot module one underscore one a.
Now I will happily find it and look at everything that happened.
It loaded package one it loaded package one one and it loaded module 1 1 a.
So all these things now are in sync modules.
Import says we can see that fact one is insist that Marvejols.
OK we can see that pack one dot fact 1 underscore one is in system of modules and we can see that pack
1 docked pack 1 underscore one dot modules one underscore one way.
Now not modules module is also insist datt modules.
That's true as well.
What got imported into an namespace HIVers it wasn't module 1 underscore one a.
It wasn't pack 1 underscore one.
All these things are modules that were loaded in memory.
But what was added the symbol that was added to an namespace Pack 1.
Right.
So if we try each of those that we did before but instead of checking insist modules.
Let's see if it's in our global dictionary.
That one is.
What about the this one is that in our Global's dictionary.
The answer is No.
And what about this one.
Is that in our Global's dictionary.
The answer is also not and that's because if you think about it this way we imported Pack 1 Depak 1
1 module 1 a kit.
This is what we imported.
How am I going to reference a value inside Module 1 1 8.
I'm really going to have to say pack one DOPs fact one underscore one darf module one underscore one
a dot value OK.
And that will get to it.
So Python only puts in the first part of the path.
It doesn't put in the rest because we're going to access it that way.
Now let me go ahead and do this.
Let me add a second module in here.
So let's go ahead and create a python file and let's call this module one underscore one Beano.
OK this is the second module.
And this does go ahead and copy code from here into here.
So this is module one B.
And this is module one.
B OK.
Now again in the exit Python and restart.
And let's do again.
Import packed Wandel pack one underscore one dot module one underscore one a K and actually let me just
import pack one doc pack one underscore one.
Let's make this even more visible.
What happened what got executed back one and package one underscore one that module one underscore 1:08
get executed.
No we don't see the print statements right.
We didn't see this print statement.
We didn't see the print statement for Module 1 underscore one B either.
So these are not insist modules.
Let's go ahead and import this.
And let's check back one back one underscore one module one underscore one a does that insist darf modules.
And the answer is No it's not one B.
Same story.
OK not in there either.
But maybe I can still access it from my global namespace because pack one dark pack one under skol one
is in my Goebels right.
That symbol exists.
Sorry PAC one that symbol exists
in my Global's and I can say pack Wandell pack one underscore one.
I could look at that module I can even look at its file for example.
OK.
All right.
So how about saying pack Wandel track one underscore one dot modules module one underscore one a dot
file.
Ok how about doing that.
Or the dot value or whatever property.
It says no.
Pack 1 pack 1.
Underscore one has no attributes.
Module one 1-A.
What happened.
Well we didn't load it.
Right.
So Python doesn't know about it yet.
Yes it's in the file system but we loaded what we loaded.
Package one in package one one.
We don't load anything further.
So in order to get that to work we would have to load it.
We would have to say Imphal fact one dart fact one underscore one thought.
Module one underscore one a k.
Now this hasn't actually added anything to our global namespace.
Well look at our Global's will see that we have module pack one that is full day but nothing else got
added.
If I say import pack one dobbed pack.
Well before I do that let me show you that.
Now I can say Pack 1 of pack 1 underscore one module one underscore one a dog value for example that
returns a value.
But if I try and do it on B.
Well we didn't import that.
So again that attribute doesn't exist.
Module 1 underscore 1 B couldn't be found.
And if I now import that one splits specifically.
OK so now I've imported it.
You see now it ran.
Executing module 1 underscore 1 be followed at my Global's.
Nothing has changed.
I still just have my pack one that falls out of the path.
Right.
I imported the difference now is that back one dot back one underscore one dot module one underscore
one B is in the CIS modules cache and Imus does type did wrong.
Yep.
That's in the CIS modules cache.
That's true.
That's the difference.
That's why.
Now when I say pack one fact one underscore one dot module one underscore one we've got value.
That's why that works not OK for that reason.
So just because you've loaded imported a package doesn't mean that it's important anything else inside
the package by default it doesn't.
And so if I want to import module one underscore one a and module one underscore one B and module one
a.
I'm going to have to write.
I'm going to say import pack one dart pack one underscore one dot module one underscore one a.
Then I'm going to have to say import back one dot back one underscore one module one underscore one.
And I'm going to have to write import pack one dot module one take.
OK I'm going to have to write these three important statements in order to be able to get at each of
those modules.
So sometimes what happens is that as an offer of a package we may not want to have to do that.
It might be nice if all I need to do.
So let me exit and I'd like to be able to say pimpled package one doc package one underscore one.
And I would like it to automatically now have access to Module 1 1 module 1 1 B but of course it doesn't.
You'll notice it doesn't execute those packages that they're not loaded.
Python doesn't know about them.
What we can do remember that package is a module.
So in this thing here let's go ahead and add a couple of things.
Let's say import module one underscore one a and let's say import module one underscore one B.
OK.
So let's let's try this.
Let's try this.
Let's see what happens.
So now I'm going to say impled tack one dark attack one underscore one.
OK I'm going to import this package here.
And what I'm hoping is that it's going to automatically now import module 1 1 and 1 1 be.
So let's see what happens and I get this error over here that was generated in the code file of the
package right of the package one ones in that file.
And what does it say.
No module named Module 1 1.
A.
Well the thing is with Python is that it requires a path it needs to know how to reach Module 1 1 8.
It's not because it's inside this package that it's going to look automatically in here for this module.
So there's two ways of doing it.
And we'll come back to that later.
For now I'm going to say package one dot package one underscore one dot module one point one way because
that's the full path to this module.
OK.
And I'm going to have to do the same thing here.
That's the full path to that module.
I know Python is complaining or at least Pepita's complaining because I didn't put my import at the
top.
OK.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Let's put the imports at the top.
OK so now let's try this again.
So let's exit's rerun Python and now let's say impled packed one dart pack one underscore one and you'll
notice what happened.
It imported package one.
It then imported module 1 1 8.
All right.
And module 1 1 B and package 1 1 so all four of those things were important.
The order in which it was done is not necessarily the order in which it was printed.
OK.
But and this is why I really wanted to put those imports down here.
Let me show you that again.
It's really just because of the print order.
Now let's go ahead and import that you'll see what happens.
It all does.
It executes and load package one then it executes and loads basically package one on this code one because
that's the second part of the path.
In my import statement but what does the module do after printing executing package one one after that
print.
Then it does two more import what does it import module one 1-A and module one can be answered ran over
here.
So now if we import Ciss you'll see that package one package one underscore one doc module one underscore
one a is insist not modules K and we don't have to actually write the import to do that.
That was done when we import a package 1:01 it automatically then went ahead and imported those additional
packages.
And in our namespace obviously we don't have module 1 1.
We don't have package 1 1 we have pack 1 K so pack 1 is in our namespace.
OK.
And so we can say package one package one underscore one doffed module one underscore one be d'arte
value and we get the value back.
So very often that's what these units are useful.
They used to kind of import stuff and we'll get back to that later.
Let me show you that we can take it one step further let's say that we're inside now the code for package
one.
This is the module code for package one well we can import stuff in here is where we can say import
back one to attack one underscore one.
OK so now let's go ahead and exits and let's rerun and now let's say import pack 1 look is going to
happens it imported pack 1 because we told it import back 1.
But you'll notice it also executed Pack 1 1 so it imported package 1 1.
Why.
Because that import statement was in the package ones in it.
Right.
And it is part of package one and package one one got loaded.
But what does it do.
It loads two other modules it loads module one one in Module 1 1 B and hence we get all of this.
So now I have I can say package one package one underscore one of let's say file that works are the
packages available and package one package one underscore one module one underscore one a dog value
that's available as well.
Once I type it correctly.
OK.
And we have them.
So there you go.
That's how we can nest modules inside other modules modules that contain other modules local packages
and we have to be careful with the impuls the packages aren't regular modules so they have a code module
file associated with them which is the Dunder init Doppie why files simply because we can't add code
to a directory.
We have to add code in a file that's inside a directory.
So by convention to make a package and it's code together it's the package directory is always the directory
name and the code for that module is just inside a specially named file called Dunder in it.
P Why.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.